# SDLC-Methodologies
This project contains the technical specifications, BPMN diagrams, class diagrams, context diagrams, use case diagrams, sample user interface and sample code for a project developed in System Analysis and Project Management course. The project involved upgrading the existing checkout system in university stores which can provide automated analysis of sales and automated alerts for expiring items and items low in inventory.
In University of Texas at Dallas, the Compass Group operates a small market in every academic building. Cashiers working in these markets are UT Dallas students looking for part time income. These students report to a manager appointed by Compass Group. The checkout system designed in these markets is connected (through IOT) with a barcode reader to scan product codes, a printer to print payment receipts and a cash drawer that opens up when Cash payment is prompted. The UI for the system is designed on Oracle Micro OS and it is connected to Oracle SQL server. Cashiers sign in with their respective logins and do transactions in their shift and manager can look up the amount of sales made by cashier as well as the respective time spent by them on the system. 
There are many drawbacks in this system. Firstly, cashier has to do a manual inventory once a week which takes up lot of time and leads to unavailability of certain products during certain times of the week. This problem can easily be solved by feeding the information about every procurement in the system and then system can keep a track record of inventory. The system can check daily for items low in inventory and inform the manager to restock, this will save manual labor and also maintain a regular stock of all items. Secondly, cashiers have to manually look up expiry dates of items and then discuss discounts on items expiring soon as well as remove the items that have expired. This leads to wastage of food products and often times customers are at the risk of consuming expired items. The expiry dates of items can also be fed into the database at the time of procurement and the system can keep a track record of items expiring soon to inform cashiers on time to offer pre-approved discounts and remove expired items from the shelves. Finally, the transactional sales data that is stored in SQL servers is not analyzed to provide any business insights. The seasonal sales pattern can provide insight into customer consumption during different times of a year. This can be utilized to procure different mix of products in different months and maximize profits. A basket analysis can be performed on customer transactions to provide insights on optimum product placements and designing combo offers.  

